chore(docs): create `Text` design docs (#667)
commercetools/nimbus: packages/nimbus/src/components/text/text.mdx

---
id: Components-Text
title: Text
description: Text styles are predefined collections of typography rules (including font-size, font-weight, line-height, and letter-spacing) that create reusable, consistent styles.
documentState: InitialDraft
order: 999
menu:
  - Components
  - Typography
  - Text
tags:
  - component
  - typography
  - text
figmaLink: >-
  https://www.figma.com/design/AvtPX6g7OGGCRvNlatGOIY/NIMBUS-design-system?node-id=6041-23913&m=dev
---

# Text

Text styles are predefined collections of typography rules (including font-size, font-weight, line-height, and letter-spacing) that create reusable, consistent styles.

## Overview

Readable and consistent text styling is important to creating effective user friendly and efficient products. These styles and tools will help give the building blocks and provide more options for creation, and there are still ways to allow for customization for the rare cases it is needed.

### Resources

> Deep dive on details and access design library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deep dive into implementation details and access the Nimbus design library.

```

[Figma library](https://www.figma.com/design/AvtPX6g7OGGCRvNlatGOIY/NIMBUS-design-system?node-id=6041-23913&m=dev)

## Variables

Get familiar with the features.

### Typographic Scale and Hierarchy

Text styles here are recommended for most body styled text, and made to fit well with component sizes. If you need to render large, bold text with a semantic meaning, you should use the heading component instead.

```jsx-live
const App = () => (
  <Stack direction="column" gap="400">
    <Box>
      <Text as="span" textStyle="md">Paragraph md</Text>
      <Text as="span"> - Primary body text, long descriptions, standard content blocks.</Text>
    </Box>
    <Box>
      <Text as="span" textStyle="sm">Paragraph sm</Text>
      <Text as="span"> - Secondary text, metadata, table content.</Text>
    </Box>
    <Box>
      <Text as="span" textStyle="xs">Paragraph xs</Text>
      <Text as="span"> - Tertiary content, small notes, timestamps.</Text>
    </Box>
    <Box>
      <Text as="span" textStyle="caption">CAPTION</Text>
      <Text as="span"> - Used for specialized, tracked metadata. (Includes letter-spacing: 1px).</Text>
    </Box>

>   </Stack>

Author: @Elle's already signed off on these two code examples, so we're gucci here 👍
